---
title:  Trends in Topics at SE Conferences (1993-2013)
layout: page

excerpt: What's cooking in Software Engineering?
---

with _[George Mathew](http://ai4se.net/people/2014/05/18/George-Mathew/),_ NC State
     
     
We report a topic modeling analysis of the the
abstracts and titles from 9291 papers published in 11 top-ranked
SE conferences between 1993 to 2013. Seven topics are identified
as the dominant themes in modern software engineering. We
show that these topics are not static; rather, some of them are
becoming decidedly less prominent over time (modeling) while
others are become very prominent indeed (defect analysis).
Also, by clustering conferences according to the topics they
usually publish, we can see that SE conferences fall into four large
groups. For example, for the last 20 years, ASE, FSE and ICSE
have been publishing mostly the same work (exceptions: FSE
publishes somewhat more work on program analysis compared
to ASE or ICSE).
Our results highlight the enormous impact of a program
committee (PC) on a research conference. Even though PC
members comprise less than a quarter of the authors with
published papers, the topics of their papers matches almost
exactly with the topics seen in all published papers.
Using these results, we offer numerous recommendations
including how to plan an individual's research program; how
to intelligently make new conferences or merge old ones; how
to better recruit program committees; and how to encourage a
broader range of topics at SE conferences. _[Read More](http://arxiv.org/abs/1608.08100)_
